# Full automated setup of an MLOps environment.

Provisioning of the environment has been fully automated with the `./install.sh` script. 

The script goes through the following steps:
1. Enables the required GCP cloud services
1. Assigns the Cloud Build service account the project editor role
1. Builds the custom container optimized for TFX/KFP development to be used with AI Platform Notebooks
1. Provisions an instance of AI Platform Notebooks based on the custom container image
1. Creates and configures two service accounts:
    - A service account for GKE worker nodes
    - A service account to be used by KFP pipelines
1. Creates a VPC to host a GKE cluster
1. Creates a GKE cluster
1. Creates a Cloud SQL instance 
1. Creates a GCS bucket 
1. Deploys Kubeflow Pipelines and configures the KFP services to use Cloud SQL for ML metadata management and GCS for artifact storage

## Running the installation script

You will run the provisioning script using [Cloud Shell](https://cloud.google.com/shell/). 

**Terraform** is pre-installed in **Cloud Shell**. The current version of `kubectl` installed by default in **Cloud Shell** does not support **Kustomize**. *When the default version of `kubectl` in **Cloud Shell** is upgraded to the version that supports **Kustomize** the step below will not be necessary and will be removed*.

To install **Kustomize** in **Cloud Shell**:
```
cd /usr/local/bin
sudo wget https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/releases/download/kustomize%2Fv3.3.0/kustomize_v3.3.0_linux_amd64.tar.gz
sudo tar xvf kustomize_v3.3.0_linux_amd64.tar.gz
sudo rm kustomize_v3.3.0_linux_amd64.tar.gz
cd
```
The above command installs **Kustomize** to the `/usr/local/bin` folder, which by default is on the `PATH`. **Kustomize** is a single executable. Note that this folder will be reset - and Kustomize removed - after you disconnect from **Cloud Shell**.


To start the provisioning script:

1. Open **Cloud Shell**
2. Clone this repo under the `home` folder.
```
git clone https://github.com/jarokaz/mlops-labs.git
cd mlops-labs/lab-00-environment-setup
```

3. Start installation
```
./install.sh [PROJECT_ID] [SQL_PASSWORD] [PREFIX] [REGION] [ZONE] [NAMESPACE]
```

Where:

|Parameter|Optional|Description|
|-------------|---------|-------------------------------|
|[PROJECT_ID]| Required|The project id of your project.|
|[SQL_PASSWORD]| Required|The password for the Cloud SQL root user|
|[PREFIX]|Optional|A name prefix tha will be added to the names of provisioned resources. If not provided [PROJECT_ID] will be used as the prefix|
|[REGION]|Optional|The region for the Cloud SQL instance.  If not provided the `us-central1` region will be used|
|[ZONE]|Optional|The zone for the GKE cluster.If not provided the `us-central1-a` will be used.|
|[NAMESPACE]|Optional|The namespace to deploy KFP to. If not provided the `kubeflow` namespace will be used|

We recommend using the defaults for the region, the zone and the namespace.

4. Review the logs generated by the script for any errors.

## Accessing KFP UI

After the installation completes, you can access the KFP UI from the following URL. You may need to wait a few minutes before the URL is operational.

```
gcloud container clusters get-credentials $PREFIX-cluster --zone $ZONE
echo "https://"$(kubectl describe configmap inverse-proxy-config -n kubeflow | \
grep "googleusercontent.com")
```
